#Nodes: The Building Blocks of Cocos2D Games

When you construct a building in the real world you generally start with a sturdy basic structural element such as a brick or 2x4.  In the world of Cocos2D game development the basic building block is what's called a Node.  Every visual element is a node, which is why understanding nodes is essential to building games with Cocos2D.  Nodes handle all positioning and display properities such as rotation, opacity and anchor points.  Additionally, actions, which will be covered in the next section, can be used to programatically alter the properties of nodes to create animation affects.

Just like building materials, once the foundation is in place, there is a wide variety of options to suite the material to your specific needs.  Nodes can come in all different types: sprite nodes, physics nodes, color nodes and more.  Each of these types provide additional functionality on top of the universal node capabilities, and each will be detailed within this documentation.

Finally, since nodes serve as the building blocks for Cocos2D games, it's important to mention how nodes are structured.  Nodes have a nested structure, meaning that nodes contain other nodes.  The inner node is called the "child" node, and the outer node to which it is added is called the "parent".  At the top of this chain of parents is a scene's "root" node which is automatically generated for any scene, and which cannot be deleted.  It is called the root node, because when you draw out the parent-child relation for games the resulting drawing looks like a tree.  Nesting nodes together allows for single operations to parent nodes to affect all children nodes.